The Joe Rogan.
Experience. So particulate pollution has gotten so much better. In fact,
one wrinkle of, uh, climate change and global warming,
is that the particular, it's the suit in the atmosphere in the sixties,
50 sixties and seventies was apparently what kept things a little bit cooler
because it refracted sunlight and heat, right?
So the irony is you clean up the air and you allow more warming. Yeah,
exactly. Anyway, there's a global warming is a very complicated issue.
This is another example where when people reduce it to the headlines and then
divide people into tribes, it's exactly the opposite of what you want.
Example, because it's clearly a right versus left thing too.
In some people's circles. If you're on the right,
you're supposed to say it's exaggerated and it's a hoax, it's this it's that.
That's not my concern. My concern is jobs.
My concern is that like you re repeat the talking points and if it's on the
left, it's how dare you.
I think the biggest, uh, that was,
that was not the best creditor that was actually, now that I know it's her,
it was not a bad imitation. Um, I think one of Obama's biggest mistakes.
He plainly wanted to address climate change global warming,
but he did it in a kind of standard left, uh,
Democrat way by calling it global warming,
by saying that there were bad actors,
which is true. The thing that astonishes me,
that Democrats haven't done is talk about it in a language that every
Republican, every conservative, every hunter Fisher would respond to,
which is pollution, which is what it is by the way, why,
why it became a conversation about a much bigger,
much more abstract, much more difficult to understand and act on.
Problem is strange to me because, um, you know,
humankind comes together. We came to look polio vaccine.
It wasn't like everybody was working on it,
but there were enough people concerned about it.
And then you had a president who said, Hey, March of dimes,
let's have everybody raise money, come up with a vaccine.
And then interestingly, you know, salt with the vaccine.
So it's just interesting about the way medicine works today. He basically said,
no, no, no, I don't want to patent. I don't want to own this patent.
He could have become a billionaire. You know, this was, this is,
this is the way we've have thought in our past,
as humans about solving big problems,
we seem to have gotten away from that a little bit. And I think that's where,
to me, the tribalism is the most dangerous.
It's not about the political charades. I don't care about that.
I don't think that's particularly damaging where I think it's damaging is by
dividing yourself into these tribes that are so exclusive and Hey,
they have these purity tests.
What we're doing is we're actually diminishing our collective ability to come
together to solve problems.
The good news is there's a million people out there at academic institutions and
garages groups of one and two people who are working on
solutions that are, that keep coming, you know, human humans and cool species.
Yeah. We're really.
Are. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it's interesting, but Jonas Salk,
when he did create that vaccine, the world was a different place.
And there wasn't this pharmaceutical industry that we have today that's,
you know,
has such a strong ability to influence the way people look at things through
advertisements.
And just through the way they influence politicians were there's,
it's a different world.
So to compare the bounty that was awaiting Jonas Salk for coming up with the
polio vaccine, it's just a different world. The world's different,
didn't he like,
wasn't there some controversy that he didn't give credit to the other people
that helped him with the vaccine.
There was an.
Okay with money, but not good with.
I haven't read this in a long time, so I can't, I can't speak to it, but,
but even like, I've been, um, do you like Richard Fineman? You know,
Richard Scheinman so, so, you know, when he talks about, I,
I love hearing him talk about, uh,
when he was drafted to work on the Manhattan project and you think about it,
America was, it was an existential fear.
Sure. I mean, we wound up using it. They couldn't use it on us.
And, uh,
and when you hear Fineman talk about all the complication of that,
we have an enormous scientific challenge.
We have an enormous competition against the Germans who were trying to do the
same thing. And then even if we win, then we have another whole challenge,
which is the moral challenge. But,
but there's a way of thinking about those things. And again,
measuring the cost and the benefits that people who might disagree aggressively
and they did about the Manhattan project can sit down and say, okay, here's,
here's what we're going to do. What's, what's the lesser of the two evils.
And I feel like right now, I don't know,
it's just as much progress as we've had.
I feel we've gotten worse at looking at the lesser of two evil paths that
looking at weighing costs and benefits.
The lesser of two evils in that regard is it dropped the bombs and the stop,
the war,
or is the lesser of two years never dropped the bomb and stop the war later.
Yeah. I mean, look, there's a million books been written about this.
I could make an argument in, in either case. I mean, Japan, we were very,
very scared of Japan. Japan had shown a lot of, um,
ability to punish the United States. Um,
even though Germany was out, uh, America's still felt very fragile. So I,
I totally get the argument that it was meant to be, uh, you know, uh,
I get it too, on the other hand, um,
you're picking some pretty big cities to drop it on and you're picking too. So.
You know, you're killing mostly civilians. Yeah. Yeah.
So it's hard to imagine that decision would be made today,
but as you just said about, you know, polio vaccine, different, different case,
but roughly same time, um, you know,
it's very hard to project your morals on to, uh, you know, 50 years from now.
We may have a very different view about MMA. For instance,
it's very hard to project.
Yeah. Well that think that's far more intense and extreme than MMA.
And when we're talking about new king people literally out of existence,
but I think that just the fact that these brilliant scientists were forced into
that moral dilemma,
like one of my favorite videos online it's Oppenheimer when he's discussing what
he said,
when the first atomic bomb was detonated and he quoted the Bhagavad Gita and he
said, I am become death destroyer of worlds. And is this to say that to see him,
have you seen it, the video, please, let me, let me play this for you. Play,
play Oppenheimer right after describing what it was like.
Cause it's so eerie because here you have one of the most brilliant scientists
ever who completed this fantastic project. Yeah.
The Manhattan project created bombs that literally where nuclear
weapons never happened before in all of human history, as far as we know,
and here the guy that did it that knew that knew that that was going to be the
death of untold amounts of people. Listen to this, listen to what he says.
The world would not be the same.
Two people laughed.
Few people cried. Most people were silent.
I remembered the lion from the Hindu scripture. The Bhagavad Gita
Vishnu
is trying to persuade the prince that
he should do his duty and to impress him
takes on his multi-armed form and says,
now I am become death. The destroyer of worlds,
I suppose we all thought that one way or another.
Dude. Imagine being that guy. I mean, here's a guy, first of all,
it was quoting the Bhagavad Gita in 1945,
a little ahead of just praying pretty incredible or 40 46. When did they,
when did they first detonate.
40? Uh,
the tests were I think 44 and Hiroshima and Nagasaki
45, correct?
Somewhere in that range of being this guy who,
you know, he's just a brilliant scientist.
He's not supposed to be the guy who destroys a half a million people in one
moment, one brief flash of light and vaporizes,
a half a million people.
He, um,
he went to the school in New York city called the ethical culture Fieldston
school, which is where my kids went.
So Oppenheimer is kind of a patron Saint for
having the brains to do something almost unimaginable and
having the ethics encouraged to know that what he'd done
was unacceptable on some levels.
Um, you know, on the other hand, but look,
if we're talking about costs and benefits, let's think about nuclear power,
nuclear bombs as a deterrent against others down the road, right?
So you have to say killed a lot of people. How many lives did it save?
Impossible to say sound like a Republican.
Sir. I know.
I know, but I mean, no argument.
Right.
Then you also have to talk about, then let's also talk about nuclear power,
which was the by-product of this, right? And there are those who could argue.
And I would probably, uh,
aid this argument to say that if the us had continued on the
path of nuclear power in the seventies,
rather than totally flipping out after well, after three mile island,
then later Chernobyl, which was a much worse action in the three mile island.
If, if that had continued, what we'd have now is probably much,
much, much cleaner, cheaper, safer nuclear fuel.
And instead what happened because we basically stopped building nuclear plants.
Instead for the next 40 years, we burnt a crap load of coal.
That's been terrible for the environment for lives.
A lot of lives lost in mining coal, but then the pollution. So, so, you know,
actions have consequences.
What seems to be all benefit often has a lot of costs and life is complicated,
but I think the more that we can measure and weigh
things sensibly, the less screaming there is. I just, you know,
I love changing my mind.
I love hearing somebody make an argument that makes me say, oh, you know,
the way I thought about that before I see why I thought it,
I don't feel like a fool for having thought it. But wow,
now that now that you've laid out some facts and laid out some counterfactuals,
I, I appreciate the opportunity to change my mind. I enjoy that.
I don't know why.
Well, I think we're so often married to our ideas.
Like our ideas are a part of us and we're losing,
if our ideas that we've been discussing are incorrect.
If our assumptions were incorrect, it's a value judgment against us. Right.
You know, I think, um,
the nuclear thing is interesting because I think one of the problems with what
happened was the design of like Fukushima, where they can't shut it off.
It's freaked people out, rightly so. And.
It's in there, it's built in a bad spot. It's.
A little spot and the backup plan sucked everything's wrong.
And now they have this nuclear hotspot that they're, you know,
it's going to be like that for a hundred thousand years. Right.
There's a better way. And they never had a chance to find that better way,
right. Because they've had a better way for everything else in the later ones,
the ones that they're operational now are far better than the Fukushima one.
And they could have gotten way, way, way, way, way better. And that is,
it's one of those things that doesn't seem like it makes sense. Like,
wait a minute, nuclear is clean, right. It's really clean.
It's really clean if it's done. Right.
And if they allow them to innovate over those 40 years,
we have got to some place where it's like super efficient,
just like everything else. If you look at a 1970 car, right.
And then you look at a car from 2020, how about a Tesla zero emissions. Right?
Like maybe they would figure out how to really knock it down to.
There are still a lot of people working on next, next, next,
next generation nuclear power, including bill gates is involved in.
And including some that are working with using as fuel, what's called,
spent fuel in a traditional nuclear actor,
which takes care of two big problems at once. Right. Right, right. So look,
yeah, yeah. Reasons to be cheerful, bunkers filled with.
That's eventually going to crack through the bunker and toxify everything around
it. Maybe you could also theoretically use that as literally as fuel.
So.